Aim: Study and demonstrate system hacking and write a report.   
a. How to crack a password?   
b. How to use Ophcrack / Crowbar / John the Ripper / Aircrack-ng to Crack 
Passwords.  
  
Software Used:   
  
Operating system: ubuntu  Programming 
Language: Python3  
  
Theory:   
  
What is password cracking?   
Password cracking is the process of using an application program to identify an unknown or  
forgotten password to a computer or network resource. It can also be used to help a threat  
actor obtain unauthorized access to resources.   
With the information malicious actors gain using password cracking, they can undertake a  
range of criminal activities. Those include stealing banking credentials or using the information  
for identity theft and fraud.   
A password cracker recovers passwords using various techniques. The process can involve  
comparing a list of words to guess passwords or the use of an algorithm to repeatedly guess the  
password.   
  
What does a password cracking attack look like?   
The general process a password cracker follows involves these four steps:   
Steal a password via some nefarious means. That password has likely been encrypted before  
being stored using a hash Hashes are mathematical functions that change arbitrary-length  
inputs into an encrypted fixed-length output.   
Choose a cracking methodology, such as a brute-force or dictionary attack, and select a 
cracking tool.   
Prepare the password hashes for the cracking program. This is done by providing an input to  
the hash function to create a hash that can be authenticated.   
Run the cracking tool.   
A password cracker may also be able to identify encrypted passwords. After retrieving the  
password from the computer's memory, the program may be able to decrypt it. Or, by using the  
same algorithm as the system program, the password cracker creates an encrypted version of  
the password that matches the original.   
  
What are password cracking techniques?   
  
Password crackers use two primary methods to identify correct passwords: brute-force and  
dictionary attacks. However, there are plenty of other password cracking methods, including  
the following:   
  
Brute force. This attack runs through combinations of characters of a predetermined length  
until it finds the combination that matches the password.   
  
Dictionary search. Here, a password cracker searches each word in the dictionary for the  
correct password. Password dictionaries exist for a variety of topics and combinations of topics,  
including politics, movies and music groups.   
  
Phishing. These attacks are used to gain access to user passwords without the use of a  
password cracking tool. Instead, a user is fooled into clicking on an email attachment. From  
here, the attachment could install malware or prompt the user to use their email to sign into a  
false version of a website, revealing their password.   
  
Malware. Similar to phishing, using malware is another method of gaining unauthored access  
to passwords without the use of a password cracking tool. Malware such as keyloggers, which  
track keystrokes, or screen scrapers, which take screenshots, are used instead.   
  
Guessing. An attacker may be able to guess a password without the use of tools. If the threat  
actor has enough information about the victim or the victim is using a common enough  
password, they may be able to come up with the correct characters.   
  
Some password cracking programs may use hybrid attack methodologies where they search for  
combinations of dictionary entries and numbers or special characters. For example, a password  
cracker may search for ants01, ants02, ants03, etc. This can be helpful when users have been  
advised to include a number in their password.   
  
How to use Ophcrack to Crack Passwords?   
  
Ophcrack is a free, open-source tool that can be used to recover lost Windows passwords. It  
works by using pre-computed tables to crack password hashes, allowing users to recover their  
forgotten passwords quickly and easily. In this article, we will take a look at how to use  
Ophcrack for Windows password recovery, with step-by-step instructions and examples.   
Before we begin, it’s important to note that Ophcrack is only able to recover passwords for  
local Windows accounts, and not for Microsoft accounts. If you are using a Microsoft account 
to sign in to your windows computer, you will need to reset your password through the 
Microsoft account website.